.TH PCPRINT LOCAL 
.SH NAME
pcprint \- print on local PC printer
.SH SYNOPSIS
pcprint file [file ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pcprint
allows you to print data from the UNIX system on a printer which is
connected to your terminal or PC.  The terminal must be a DEC VT102,
VT200 series, or VT300 series, or compatible, or your PC must be running
software that emulates one of these terminals, and the emulation must
include the "transparent print" feature.  For example, MS-DOS Kermit 2.31 or
later may be used on the IBM PC or PS/2.

While pcprint is active, text sent to your screen is redirected to the local
printer by the terminal or PC's internal mechanisms.  These are triggered
when the special escape sequence "ESC [ 5 i" is received, and are deactivated
when "ESC [ 4 i" is received.  These sequences are sent by pcprint.
.RE
.SH INVOCATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B pcprint
lets you type from the keyboard directly to your printer.
.TP
.B pcprint file
prints the UNIX file on your printer.  "file" may be a single file,
a list of files, or a wildcard file specification.  If more than one file
is specified, they are not separated on the printout (but see below).
.TP
.B pcprint < file
prints the UNIX file on your printer.  If more than one file is specified,
only the first one is printed.
.TP
.B command | pcprint
The standard output of any UNIX command may be piped to pcprint.
.PP
The pcprint program may also be used with the UNIX "pr" command to produce
paginated listings.  For example:

  pr -f *.c | pcprint

will print all your C programs with page headings containing the date and
time, filename, and page number, with formfeeds inserted between each page.

.SH SEE ALSO
pr(1)
.sp 1.0v
Gianone, Christine M., "Using MS-DOS Kermit", Digital Press, 1992.

.SH AUTHOR
Christine Gianone, Columbia University, March 1989.

.SH BUGS
Interruption of pcprint may leave your PC in printing mode.

If you run pcprint from a terminal or PC that does not have a printer
attached, or with a printer that is not turned on, the terminal or PC may
become stuck waiting for the printer to become ready.

When using MS-DOS Kermit, enter the key combination Alt-= (hold down the
Alt key and press the equals key) to reset the terminal emulator if your
PC becomes stuck for any of these reasons.

